.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" ofpath: determine OpenFirmware path from unix device node
.\" Copyright (C) 2000, 2001 Ethan Benson
.\"
.\" Portions based on show_of_path.sh:
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2000 Olaf Hering <olh@suse.de>
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\" as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\" of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License          
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software                
.\" Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307, USA.
.\"
.TH OFPATH 8 "27 May 2001" "GNU/Linux PowerPC" "System Manager's Manual"
.SH NAME
.B ofpath
\- determine OpenFirmware path from unix device node.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ofpath
.RB [ \ \-\-debug\  ]
.RB [ \ \-h | \-\-help\  ]
.RB [ \ \-V | \-\-version\  ]
.IB FILE
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page explains 
.BR ofpath ,
the utility used to find the OpenFirmware device path corresponding to
a unix device node, such as \fI/dev/hda2\fR.

.B ofpath
will work on NewWorld PowerMacs only if yaboot is used as the
bootloader.  It will \fInot\fR work on NewWorld macs booted with BootX.

.B ofpath
will also work on some OldWorld PowerMacs. Unlike NewWorld, it will
work on BootX-booted OldWorld machines. Note that OldWorld support is
not well tested and may not give accurate results.

\fBYbin\fR(8) uses this utility to automatically convert unix device
nodes to OpenFirmware paths as needed. 
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-\-debug
This option causes \fBofpath\fR to output some boring details useful
only for debugging \fBofpath\fR itself.
.TP
.BR \-h ,\  \-\-help
Print out usage information and exit.
.TP
.BR \-V ,\  \-\-version
Print out the version number and exit.

.SH BUGS
.B Ofpath
may not accurately find all SCSI devices, and does not support all
SCSI adapters/drivers.

.B Ofpath 
also does not support all IDE devices.  

.B Ofpath
does not support IBM hardware.  Send a tarball of /proc/device-tree
along with /proc/cpuinfo to <erbenson@alaska.net>
.SH AUTHORS
.B Ofpath 
is based on show_of_path.sh written by Olaf Hering, it was
rewritten to work with /bin/ash and stripped down systems such as
boot/rescue floppies by Ethan Benson.  This man page was written by
Ethan Benson.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to <erbenson@alaska.net>
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bootstrap (8),
.BR mkofboot (8),
.BR yaboot (8),
.BR yaboot.conf (5),
.BR ybin (8).
